In this post, you’ll learn how to write test cases for bank transaction. Each bank has it’s own flow for money transfer. 
So it is hard to generalize the flow for all the banks. So I am attempting come up with a flow that most of the banks are likely to have in their own money transfer 
process. You may find a lot of difference depending on the type of the bank that you are using. 

Let me jot down some of the common test steps to follow for this workflow.

Test Steps for Bank Transaction

Go to the bank website login page.
Input username and password.
Go to money transfer page.
Add the beneficiary to whom you want to transfer money.
Check the details of bank account and person. Verify if they are correct.
Select the specific money transfer method from NEFT/RTGS or SWIFT transfer options.
Select the beneficiary name, funds and then submit the details.
Verify the amount and other details on verification page.
Click submit for final action of fund transfer.

These are the test steps which you’ll find with almost every bank in India. 
If you are reading this from another country then the flow of bank transaction may be different. 
For example some of you may have SMS authentication before sending the money. 
Some of you are likely to have other means of verifying the details of beneficiary to avoid sending the money to wrong person. 
But that being said, flow is pretty much the same for most banks.

There is also one more option of the adding beneficiary in the Indian banks. 
So the image below shows the number of fields that you can validate and write test cases for as well.

bank transaction test cases

If you add the test cases for each page then the test cases will be a lot covering the basic aspects of the tests.

Test Cases for Online Bank Money Transfer

Verify the bank website URL.
Verify if the bank website URL has HTTPS on the address bar and in the URL.
Verify if the bank website login page does not appear forged.
Verify if the bank login page has username and password.
Verify the username and password are being accepted or not.
Verify if the SMS authentication is triggered after login.
Verify if the user is redirected to the dashboard after passing all authentication processes.
Verify if the user has access to the online money transfer feature.
Check if the user can transfer funds option is available during specific time period (9 am to 5pm).
Check if the fund transfer option shows notice for off-business hours transaction.
Verify if the user can add the beneficiary.
Verify if the beneficiary details can be verified.
Verify if the fund transfer option allows NEFT or RTGS option for nationalized money transfers.
Verify if the fund transfer page asks for beneficiary name, IFSC code, bank name and fund amount and purpose of transfer.
Verify if the fund transfer page asks for PAN number if the amount of funds gets over 50k.
Check if the fund transfer page has an 2-step authentication before you finalize transfer.
Check if the inter bank fund transfer happens instantly or not.
Check if the amount of time it takes for the funds transferred between the in-business hours.
Check if the amount of time it takes for the funds transferred between the off-business hours.
Check if the amount transferred notification is sent to sender and receiver.
Check if the amount gets transferred to the exact person mentioned in the beneficiary.

These are some of test cases that you can come up with for most of the common flow for the bank transfer. 
Feel free to let me know if you have any other questions or suggestions to improve the test cases mentioned in the post. 
I’d appreciate the comments below and also please do share the link of this post on Facebook or twitter. 🙂

 

